Krishna Dave, kdave
15112 TP 3
Competitive Analysis


In this section, I will comment on and conduct competitive analysis for 
existing games and products I found online that are similar to Puzzle Mania. 


Product 1: Jigsaw Puzzle Solver [Open CV and Eclipse]
 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9zWPQwS3nak


This video is about a jigsaw puzzle solving program. 
The idea of this program is quite similar to mine because 
the programmer uses color detection, color matching and
pieces’ outline to solve a jigsaw puzzle. A feature that 
I really found compelling in this program is that the programmer
uses the complete (target) picture as a reference for color detection. 
For instance, the programmer matches the pixels from the piece to the
final picture and uses that to find the relative position of a jigsaw piece. 
The program is written in Java and implements the modules Open CV and Eclipse. 
I tried using Open CV for a few days, but could not seem to understand it, 
so I am implementing PIL for color detection, cropping and outline detection.


Product 2: Automatic Jigsaw Puzzle Solving


https://www.cs.bgu.ac.il/~icvl/projects/project-jigsaw-files/GeneratePuzzle.m
https://www.cs.bgu.ac.il/~icvl/icvl_projects/automatic-jigsaw-puzzle-solving/


This source seems like a professional institution or an organization with more 
than one person working on solving this program. The project is labelled as 
Computational Puzzle Solving. The algorithm they use is extremely complex and robust. 
The group of programmer put the following statement on their website: 
“In 2011 we were proud to be the first group to have devised a computational solution 
which is both fully automatic, requires no manually provided hints, operates on 
puzzles having thousands of pieces, and does not with near perfect performance.” 
As you can see, their goal is quite grand compared to my goal for the term project. 
I wish my program to do two things, 
1) cut a picture into square pieces and 
2) be able to detect color and outlines of shuffled jigsaw pieces and number 
them in sequential order. I am hope that my program can solve a small basic puzzle with distinct colors.
A feature that I really liked about their algorithm is that they solve based 
on similar areas in the puzzle. For instance, the program solves all the green trees first, 
then solves the stones, the water, the sky and finally, places the miscellaneous pieces of details. 


Product 3: Slider Puzzle in Blender using Python
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jipaKhQWDeg
 
In this product, the programmer uses a graphical module called 
Blender to create a slider puzzle. I am still debating whether 
I should do a slider puzzle solver or a jigsaw puzzle solver. 
The slider puzzle seems quite appropriate to solve using the topics 
we learned in class including: backtracking and 2D lists.  
Making a slider puzzle also seems a lot more feasible to me because 
all the pieces of the shuffled puzzle stay on the designated board 
without any overlap. The feature that I really like about this program 
is its organization. For instance, the code for his divided into 
four parts: Creating the grid, texturing, finding moveable pieces and animation. 
The programmer has very good style of programming! 


